Minutes
=======

13th March, 2018 - Analysis
---------------------------
We discussed

* equivalence classes
* construction of integers and
* construction of real numbers

The most interesting point was the definition of integers and reals as equivalence classes.

Detailed Discussion
===================
Equivalence classes
-------------------

We chose to start with equivalence classes since we think this is perhaps the most important tool in all of mathematics. The construction of natural numbers is pretty much axiomatic and reflects centuries of experience people have had with counting things. On the other hand integers, rationals and the reals can be built using an equivalence relation on the previous systems hierarchically. Integers can be defined using equivalence on natural numbers, rational using equivalence on integers and so on.

I think I missed out on explaning the usefulness of equivalence classes, so I'll give some ideas about it here. Everybody has some experience with sets and you all know the world would have been much simpler if every set was disjoint. For example in probability if you know that two sets are disjoint, what shall be the probabilty associated with the union of those two sets?

P(A U B) = P(A) + P(B)

So why this is so easy? Because the sets are disjoint. We all have gone through the days of working our way out of that inclusion-exclusion formula and we know it's a mess when sets aren't disjoint. So with this wonderful experience of working with disjoint sets, it would be great if we have a tool with us which can generate disjoint sets to work with. 

Similar is the idea of equivalence relation. If you can show that a relation on a domain is equivalence realtion, then this relation shall divide the whole domain into disjoint sets and moreover each of these disjoint set shall be composed of elements which reflect some unique property, the so called class of these elements. Hence the idea of equivalence classes ( the disjoint sets generated by a equivalence relation ). Let me give you an example everybody might be familiar with. Consider the following relation on the domain of integers:

a ( is related to ) b iff a-b is divisible by 5

For those who already are familiar with such a relation, this is the same as saying 'a' ( is congruent to ) 'b' ( mod 5 ) iff 'a' and 'b' leave the same remainder when divided by 5. I will leave it to the readers to think about how the equivalence classes will be generated. Here I shall mention that the equivalence classes hence generated is usually ( in some sense ) denoted by { class '0', class '1', class '2', class '3', class '4' }. Probably most of you already might know this but just give a little thought about this naming ( class '0' can be writtten as class '5' ) and the beauty of this domain division. If you don't feel challenged enough consider this excercise: 

Consider the real plane (R x R), initially consider every point in the plane as a class of its own ( this class contains one element: the point itself ). I give you the straight line y=x. Can you construct an equivalence relation that shall divide the plane in the following manner: All points on the line y=x shall now belong to a class which I shall call class '0'. The rest of the plane will be divided into lines parallel to y=x. Note that parallel lines do not meet ( or do they :O, image processing anyone ? :P ) so we do have disjoint classes. I'll solve this, the next time we'll meet.

Construction of integers
------------------------

TODO

Construction of real numbers
----------------------------

TODO

**Useful Reference:** Analysis I by Terence Tao.
